---
layout: post
title:  "Research Reports"
author: Jeremy Douglass
date:   2017-09-20
categories: 
---

Researchers are currently compiling brief research reports on [individual topics]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-09-10-topics %}) of 2+ pages (at least 600 words) with one or more illustrations (e.g. an Edger graph).

This is not a paper -- you are not bringing in extensive outside secondary sources. Rather, the intention is to document your engagement with a specific portion of the colleciton, highlight a few interesting works / lexias / choices that you discovered, and explain something you learned about the material.

Reports may take many forms, but here is an example outline -- try addressing each area in a few sentences or a short paragraph.

----------

-  **Descriptive Title**  
   What is your topic? what did you find?

-  **Topic overview**  
   Define your topic. Briefly, what exactly do you mean by "romance" or "fantasy"? What does that mean in the context of game books

-  **Materials**  
   How did you select your works? What did you choose to focus on -- and why? Were there only a few works in the collection that met your criteria? -- if so, how did you find them? Were there far too many works that fit your criteria? -- if so, how did you choose which to sample, or where to start?

-  **Method**  
   If you chose to annotate selected choices or endings using custom tags, explain what those were and why. If you were using a different method -- for comparison of translations / adaptations, or for exploring the catalog -- again, explain briefly what your research method was.

-  **Examples**  
   What is a work that is _typical_ of your topic -- typical size, length, structure, subject matter or tone, etc.? What are one or more works that are unusual? How are they unusual?

-  **Illustration**  
   Share an image -- or more than one. Below the image add a caption that explains what the image is, and what part of it is worth of special attention.

-  **Finding**  
   Share one thing that you have learned. This could involve the close consideration of a single unusual lexia or weirdly-shaped work... or it could involve a general pattern or a relationship between some language / genre / author and a group of works. What do we now know that we didn't before? Perhpas more importantly, what do we not know -- what is still left to discover?

----------
